README.md, before:

![ben parisot header image](imgs/bp-header1.gif)


# :wave: Howdy! I'm Ben Parisot. 

I'm an experienced full-stack developer and engineering manager. I work primarily in JavaScript, React, Node, Rails, and Python. I currently manage the engineering team at Planet Argon, a Ruby-on-Rails development agency. [Go check out our work here!](https://www.planetargon.com/work)

Some of my most used and most valuable skill sets include:
- :technologist: Full-stack development (JavaScript, React, Node.js, Express.js, Redux, GraphQL, MongoDB, )
- :test_tube: TDD and code coverage advocacy (Jest, Cypress, CodeCov, CodeClimate)
- :eyes: Site performance monitoring and optimization (Pingdom, New Relic, bottleneck resolution, WCAG compliance, on-page search optimization)
- :art: UI design implementation (Material-UI, Bootstrap, CSS/SCSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, InVision, Figma, Sketch)
- :bar_chart: Data-driven search and social marketing (A/B testing, Google Ads, Semrush, Moz, Power BI)
- :busts_in_silhouette: Stakeholder management (request prioritization, ticket estimation, sprint report generation, product and design team communication )

In my spare time I enjoy cooking dinner with my husband and friends, creating reactive particle systems in TouchDesigner, hiking with my dogs, and reading comics. I'm currently learning to play the piano and hope to one day write a novel. :two_men_holding_hands: :dog2: :musical_keyboard: :writing_hand:

## Recent Accomplishments
### **`Software Engineering Manager @ Planet Argon`**, *2020 - Present*
- :guard: Ensured code quality for client projects by reviewing PRs, pair programming with devs, and enforcing company standards around testing and Rails best practices
- :heartpulse: Improved developer satisfaction metrics across 12 KPIs by creating quarterly satisfaction surveys and developing action plans addressing lowest-rated and highest-priority drivers
- :thinking: Helped troubleshoot environment and application setup issues for interns and newly hired developers
- :closed_lock_with_key: Maintained high security standards for internal and client projects by managing access and permissions privileges for version control systems and third-party tools and integrations
- :moneybag: Saved the company $875 - $1,325 per candidate by redesigning the engineering team's hiring process to reduce time-to-hire and billable employee involvement
- :house: Kept client attribution to zero during the first year of the pandemic by successfully transitioning the team from in-office to fully-remote without project disruption
- :bust_in_silhouette: Improved developer skills and improved retention rates by implementing clear role advancement plans and a fuller, more detailed team org chart
- :blue_book: Improved new hire onboarding and ensured consistent adherence to company standards by rewriting entire engineering team handbook to reflect modern best practices and provide fuller context to existing policies

### **`Contract Full Stack Developer & UI Designer`**, *2016 - Present*
- :chart_with_upwards_trend: Helped businesses establish and grow their digital brands and online sales by designing and building user-friendly websites and applications
- :dollar: Increased sales and other conversion rates by designing and building custom landing pages to be used in PPC and social media ad campaigns 
- :mag: Enhanced SEO performance by ensuring sites adhered to on-page optimization standards
- :computer_mouse: Increased user engagement and app functionality by designing and building new front-end components user modern JavaScript frameworks and NPM packages
- :zap: Ensured app speed and performance by optimizing routes, database queries, and third-party API integrations

### **`Technical Producer @ Helios Interactive,`** *2016 - 2019*
- :bust_in_silhouette: Maintained high-profile client relationships for Visa, State Farm, Medtronic, Kaiser Permanente, Cartoon Network, and others by ensuring timely deliverable of working apps under strict deadlines and providing on-site support for deployments
- :heartpulse: Improved developer satisfaction by clarifying project requirements, prioritizing and troubleshooting bugs, performing manual QA and providing feedback, and running efficient agile sprints
- :hugs: Improved company reputation by increasing employee engagement with existing corporate giving and volunteer initiatives

## Most Used Tools and Technologies

![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![SASS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Redux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redux-593D88?style=for-the-badge&logo=redux&logoColor=white)
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white)
![ExpressJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-ffca28?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase&logoColor=black)
![Heroku](https://img.shields.io/badge/Heroku-430098?style=for-the-badge&logo=heroku&logoColor=white)
![Ruby on Rails](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ruby_on_Rails-CC0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ruby-on-rails&logoColor=white)
![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/badge/circleci-343434?style=for-the-badge&logo=circleci&l)
![Jenkins](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jenkins-D24939?style=for-the-badge&logo=Jenkins&logoColor=white)
![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon_AWS-FF9900?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazonaws&logoColor=white)
![Jira](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jira-0052CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=Jira&logoColor=white)
![Github Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/Github%20Actions-282a2e?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=367cfe)

Commit message:

adds Roger That experience section

README.md, after:

![ben parisot header image](imgs/bp-header1.gif)


# :wave: Howdy! I'm Ben Parisot. 

I'm an experienced full-stack developer and engineering manager. I work primarily in JavaScript, React, Node, Rails, and Python. I currently manage the engineering team at Planet Argon, a Ruby-on-Rails development agency. [Go check out our work here!](https://www.planetargon.com/work)

Some of my most used and most valuable skill sets include:
- :technologist: Full-stack development (JavaScript, React, Node.js, Express.js, Redux, GraphQL, MongoDB, )
- :test_tube: TDD and code coverage advocacy (Jest, Cypress, CodeCov, CodeClimate)
- :eyes: Site performance monitoring and optimization (Pingdom, New Relic, bottleneck resolution, WCAG compliance, on-page search optimization)
- :art: UI design implementation (Material-UI, Bootstrap, CSS/SCSS, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, InVision, Figma, Sketch)
- :bar_chart: Data-driven search and social marketing (A/B testing, Google Ads, Semrush, Moz, Power BI)
- :busts_in_silhouette: Stakeholder management (request prioritization, ticket estimation, sprint report generation, product and design team communication )

In my spare time I enjoy cooking dinner with my husband and friends, creating reactive particle systems in TouchDesigner, hiking with my dogs, and reading comics. I'm currently learning to play the piano and hope to one day write a novel. :two_men_holding_hands: :dog2: :musical_keyboard: :writing_hand:

## Recent Accomplishments
### **`Software Engineering Manager @ Planet Argon`**, *2020 - Present*
- :guard: Ensured code quality for client projects by reviewing PRs, pair programming with devs, and enforcing company standards around testing and Rails best practices
- :heartpulse: Improved developer satisfaction metrics across 12 KPIs by creating quarterly satisfaction surveys and developing action plans addressing lowest-rated and highest-priority drivers
- :thinking: Helped troubleshoot environment and application setup issues for interns and newly hired developers
- :closed_lock_with_key: Maintained high security standards for internal and client projects by managing access and permissions privileges for version control systems and third-party tools and integrations
- :moneybag: Saved the company $875 - $1,325 per candidate by redesigning the engineering team's hiring process to reduce time-to-hire and billable employee involvement
- :house: Kept client attribution to zero during the first year of the pandemic by successfully transitioning the team from in-office to fully-remote without project disruption
- :bust_in_silhouette: Improved developer skills and improved retention rates by implementing clear role advancement plans and a fuller, more detailed team org chart
- :blue_book: Improved new hire onboarding and ensured consistent adherence to company standards by rewriting entire engineering team handbook to reflect modern best practices and provide fuller context to existing policies

### **`Contract Full Stack Developer & UI Designer`**, *2016 - Present*
- :chart_with_upwards_trend: Helped businesses establish and grow their digital brands and online sales by designing and building user-friendly websites and applications
- :dollar: Increased sales and other conversion rates by designing and building custom landing pages to be used in PPC and social media ad campaigns 
- :mag: Enhanced SEO performance by ensuring sites adhered to on-page optimization standards
- :computer_mouse: Increased user engagement and app functionality by designing and building new front-end components user modern JavaScript frameworks and NPM packages
- :zap: Ensured app speed and performance by optimizing routes, database queries, and third-party API integrations

### **`Technical Producer @ Helios Interactive,`** *2016 - 2019*
- :bust_in_silhouette: Maintained high-profile client relationships for Visa, State Farm, Medtronic, Kaiser Permanente, Cartoon Network, and others by ensuring timely deliverable of working apps under strict deadlines and providing on-site support for deployments
- :heartpulse: Improved developer satisfaction by clarifying project requirements, prioritizing and troubleshooting bugs, performing manual QA and providing feedback, and running efficient agile sprints
- :hugs: Improved company reputation by increasing employee engagement with existing corporate giving and volunteer initiatives

### **`Digital Director @ Roger That Agency,`** *2014 - 2016*
- :heartpulse: Increased client satisfaction and repeat business by managing end-to-end digital projects, resolving technical issues like email setup and domain transfer, and sourcing top quality and reliable contract designers and developers
- :chart_with_upwards_trend: Enhanced user experience and increased site traffic by performing post-launch support and regular site optimization

## Most Used Tools and Technologies

![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![SASS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Redux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redux-593D88?style=for-the-badge&logo=redux&logoColor=white)
![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white)
![ExpressJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4EA94B?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/firebase-ffca28?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase&logoColor=black)
![Heroku](https://img.shields.io/badge/Heroku-430098?style=for-the-badge&logo=heroku&logoColor=white)
![Ruby on Rails](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ruby_on_Rails-CC0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ruby-on-rails&logoColor=white)
![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/badge/circleci-343434?style=for-the-badge&logo=circleci&l)
![Jenkins](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jenkins-D24939?style=for-the-badge&logo=Jenkins&logoColor=white)
![AWS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon_AWS-FF9900?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazonaws&logoColor=white)
![Jira](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jira-0052CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=Jira&logoColor=white)
![Github Actions](https://img.shields.io/badge/Github%20Actions-282a2e?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=367cfe)
